The moment the user decides to authenticate our first filter is attempt authentication method is going
to get called and it's going to extract the username and password from the request and from it.
Create an authentication object.
And once we create an authentication object, we need to pass it into the authentication manager.
The authentication manager is a class that will contain a method responsible for authenticating a user
or turning them away.
And with this method we'll do is extract the credentials from the authentication object.
And if there is a match, if the credentials that were passed in match a user in our records, we're
going to return the authentication object.
And the simple act of returning the authentication object.
Spring is going to interpret as a successful authentication, which in turn is going to invoke the successful
authentication method, which will then return a JWT token.
And the JWT token is an access token that the user can then use to make requests.
We'll get to that later.
First thing is first inside the security folder, go to your custom authentication manager.
And what this will do is implement the authentication manager interface.
And upon doing so, we're going to override the authenticate method that we talked about earlier.
And you'll remember that when the authentication filter tries to authenticate, it needs to extract
the username and password, which we just did, and from them create an authentication object which
we then pass into our authentication manager, which will then take care of the authentication process.
So let's do just that.
You can create an authentication object, authentication by creating a new username password authentication
token.
Here we see principal and credentials principal identifies the user.
So here we're going to say user get username and credentials is most often a password.
So here we're going to say user dot get password.
Cool.
And now we have to create a new object of the authentication manager and call it, but we're not going
to tightly couple our apps.
So let's make this into a bean which we can then auto wire and to authentication filter or we have Lombok,
we'll just say all ARGs constructor and then we will inject our authentication manager over here.
And now we can say.
Authentication manager.
Dot authenticate passing in our authentication object.
All right.
So step number one is now complete.
And now we can get rid of this generic return keyword.
What we're going to return is the authentication object that the authentication manager itself is going
to return upon successful authentication.
And once we do that, once we return the authentication object, then a special method called successful
authentication is going to get invoked, which we will deal with in the next video.
But for now, let us address an error that we currently have.
So if I go inside of security config, it's expecting an authentication manager inside of the constructor
for authentication filter.
So what I'll do over here is I'm going to inject the authentication manager.
Here.
Let's be more specific.
Custom Authentication Manager.
Passing that in.
And for the sake of being consistent, let's do the same thing over here, even though it's still going
to work thanks to polymorphism.
But it's good to be consistent no matter what you do.
And so going back into our security pipeline, when a user tries to authenticate, it's going to extract
the credentials, wrap them up in an object, pass that into the authentication manager.
Inside of the authentication manager.
What we then want to do is extract these credentials and compare them against what we have in our database
and similar to how we have service implementations for all the other entities, we have a user service
implementation as well.
Now if you were one of the unlucky students that downloaded the resources really early on into the course,
I made the mistake of calling this unwrapped student by accident where it should actually be unwrap
user.
Of course I recently made the correction and updated your GitHub resources, so if what you have is
exactly what you're seeing over here, then not to worry.
Let's just keep going.
But if you do see Unwrapped student, then obviously you make sure to change it to the appropriate name.
All right, so over here, what we're missing is a method that can get a user based on their user name.
So inside of the interface, we're going to make sure that any implementation of this interface also
overrides a get user method.
But this one is going to expect a string username.
So back over here, we can override the overloaded get user method, but this one accepts expects a
string username.
And if you go to the user repository, this returns a user where it should actually be returning an
optional because we are not certain if the username they pass in will be valid.
Will find by actually find a user based on the username they pass in.
We will never know.
That's why you make it optional in order to tell the user hey, you might be at risk of getting a null,
so please unwrap the optional safely so we can say user repository over here dot find by username.
This gives us back an optional so we can say optional user user.
Equal to the following.
And what we're going to return is the unwrapped user.
Uh, this expects an ID, and I don't feel like overloading this method as well, so.
And you know what?
What I'll do is I'll just put a 400 for long.
Over here.
All that's going to do is append a404 into the error message.
Doesn't really matter all that much.
You can feel free to change the implementation if you would like, but I'm going to move on.
So now we have a method that can retrieve a user based on a username.
So back to our authentication manager, we're going to grab that user.
We're going to say user.
User is equal to.
Why doesn't it auto import?
That's strange.
There we are.
User.
User is equal to.
We'll have to auto wire the user service implementation.
Let's just say all args constructor and then user service implementation, user service implementation.
And we also need to auto wire the script password encoder, but we'll talk about that later.
So user user is equal to user service implementation.
And you know what, let's be more general for the sake of loose coupling, because sometimes you can
have many implementations of the same interface.
The reason I was very specific with my authentication manager is to enforce that this one in particular
gets invoked anyways.
Not too big of a problem.
We're just going to get the user based on the user name inside of the authentication object.
You'll remember that we saved the user name inside of principle.
So what we can do over here access the username by just saying authentication dot get name.
And now let's assume that the username they pass in is invalid.
Do we have to handle it over here?
No, we do not because back inside of the user service, implementation and entity not found exception
will already be thrown if the entity is not present.
So all we have to do is once we're here, we can assume that we actually do have a user because an exception
was not thrown.
All we going to do is check their password and make sure that it's good.
But if you go back to our database when a password is stored, we have no idea what the actual password
is, but that's fine.
We only care that they themselves know the password, and what we can do is apply the same hashing algorithm
to that password.
And if it happens to match what we have in our records, then we know they passed incorrect credentials.
So inside of here, what we can do is inject the B crypt password encoder bin that we have configured
inside of our main class.
You can say Barrett password or encoder.
Now we can say if B crypt password encoder, what we're going to do is check if the hashed version of
the password they pass in matches the password that belongs to this user dot matches authentication.
You'll recall that we stored the user's password that they passed in inside of the credentials.
So if authentication not credentials to string.
If the hashed password here matches the hashed password that was stored inside the database.
So here we'll say user get password.
Then we know that they passed in the correct credentials.
So what I'm going to do actually is check if there isn't a match, then we're going to throw a new bad
credentials exception.
And it's just going to say, I guess the wrong password should be fine.
Now we're back.
Credentials exception is a special exception because it is an authentication exception and it's going
to get handled for you by spring security.
We'll revisit that later.
Anyways, if a user were to pass an invalid credentials, it only makes sense to throw a new bad credentials
exception.
We will come back to this, but if we reach all the way over here, then we know the username and password
were correct.
So we're going to send back an authentication object, return a new username.
Password authentication token.
With the same credentials as before authentication, get name and know what it might just be easier
to say.
User get password over here.
They do match so doesn't really matter where we get it from.
All right.
And by virtue of returning this authentication object, it's going to get a return over here, which
implies that the authentication worked.
And what that's going to do is invoke the successful authentication method that I'm just going to override
right now.
And we do not need to call the parent method.
We're going to be doing our own implementation over here.
You know what?
For the demo purposes, let's just print.
Woohoo!
Authentication worked.
All right, let's fix this up.
And in the event that going back here in the event that our bad credentials exception in the event that
an authentication exception is thrown, then what's going to happen is the unsuccessful authentication
method is going to get invoked.
It's almost like magic.
And here we're going to print.
Um.
You know, same thing.
But except instead of voodoo, we'll say, Boo hoo.
Och, I think we are looking really, really good.
Let's try all of this out.
I'm going to re-enable all of my breakpoints while as soon as I run my app in debug mode.
Do I have breakpoints in my manager?
I do.
All right.
Think we're good?
So the first thing we have to do is register a user.
Why is that there?
That's odd.
Anyways, first thing we're going to do is register a user.
201 created.
Let's make sure.
We're looking good.
We've registered a user known as rain with this respective password, which we which our API does not
know what it is, but it only matters that we know because if we pass in the same password and the hashed
version of that password matches this password here, then we know that they passed in the correct information.
So let's go into our authentication manager.
It's going to apply the same algorithm on the password we pass in and see if it matches the one in our
database.
There is a match, so it returns the authentication object, which was in turn returned over here,
invoking successful authentication, printing.
Woohoo!
And we get a status of 200 because we don't have anything implemented here and there is nothing to report
on.
So the default is 200.
And what if I was to pass in incorrect credentials?
We'll press send.
It's going to go to the authentication manager.
The hashed version of this password is not going to match what we have in our database because, well,
they're different.
So it's going to throw a bad credentials exception, which in turn invokes unsuccessful authentication.
We have a very nice and very clear chain of events going on right now.
The only issue is it also returns a status of 200 because we're not doing anything here to change that.
So we'll be addressing this later.
But there is one bug that I actually want to address before we end this video.
Well, actually, let's test all the scenarios first.
What if I pass in bad fields?
Then this is going to get called, this is going to get thrown, which is then caught by our exception
handler that we set up.
But there is one thing that I don't like, and that is if I pass in a username that doesn't exist in
our database, we can put whatever here.
It doesn't matter if I pass in a username that doesn't exist.
Let's say Carl.
And I'm going to put a breakpoint right here.
A entity not found exception is going to get thrown.
Well, guess where this exception is going to get caught?
It's not going to get caught over here where a not found error code is going to be returned.
It's actually going to get caught in our exception handler filter because it's being thrown from within
a filter.
So we're going to get a response of bad request, and that is not good.
What we need to do is have another catch.
BLOCK That accounts for an entity not found scenario, entity not found exception.
And if that's the case, then I'm just going to return.
Uh, not found.
And then I'll say.
Username doesn't exist.
Let's try this out now.
Put some breakpoints over here.
First we have to register a user because our app restarted.
And I will try logging in as Carl.
All right.
This should end up throwing an exception which gets caught in our exception handling filter.
And beautiful.
It gets caught in the correct catch block.
This is going to say not found and we're going to return.
Username doesn't exist.
We pretty much have our own global exception handler, but purely for filters.
All right.
In the next video, we are going to put our final touches on pathway number two, because we're going
to set up the logic for successful authentication where we send back a JWT and unsuccessful authentication
where we're just going to send back a401.
I cannot wait to see you in there.